So, you're trying to make an AI video,
but it just doesn't look how you
imagined, right? It's not your prompts.
You're probably just using the wrong
method. So, today I'm breaking down
every [music] way to make an AI video
from using just simple text prompts to a
full-on motion capture performance and
show you which method is the right one
to use [music] to actually get the
results you're imagining.
The first method is text to video where
we're creating an AI video starting from
only a text prompt. Here's a dialogue
scene I created in Google V3 using only
a text route.
>> What is a typical day like here on the
colony?
>> There's nothing typical about it. It's a
constant grind of research, [music]
maintenance, and training. We work very
long hours.
>> When writing text prompts, you want to
describe the scene, the characters, and
the action that's going on. Where this
video takes place, who's in the video,
and what they're doing. And to use text
to video, it's usually very simple. You
just go to a prompting interface like
this one in Flow, which is Google's AI
video studio. And inside the prompt bar,
just put in your prompt.
>> The colony is in sight. We are
initiating the final approach sequence.
[music] Now, all systems are green.
>> When it comes to writing your prompts,
you also want to adding a timeline for
the actions that's going on. There
should be a sequence of events that are
happening. For this scene, I described
that a space battle was happening inside
a greenhouse habitat on a Mars colony
and we see the astronaut hiding behind
the plant. She then fires her laser
blaster at a robot invader and finally
the robot shatters with sparks and
crumbles. And by describing the full
sequence of events, it gives the AI a
good idea of how to animate the scene.
The Google Veil 3.1 video model is going
to be your best option when it comes to
generating character dialogues and it
also does a very, very good job at
following your prompts.
>> Hey everyone, Soul 120 update. The
tomatoes are thriving in the new
hydroponics bay. It's amazing what we
can grow here.
>> Some other decent options include the
one 2.5 AI video generator. Sor 2 is
also really, really good in terms of the
realism, but it's much more censored and
a lot more limited. The second method to
make AI videos is image to video. In
this case, we're actually going to
attach a reference image for our prompts
instead of only just using the text. So,
a simple example could be I have this
photo taken of myself in my room and I
can tell the AI to create some
animations with it, like adding a goblin
that falls through the ceiling.
>> Well, hello there.
>> Greetings from below.
But besides just goofy videos of
ourselves, image to video is actually a
really, really useful tool when it comes
to animating more complex scenes. Right
now, it's the best way to create
consistent characters and scenes. So, if
you have a reference image of a
character you'd like to turn into an AI
video story, what you can do is use an
AI image generator like Nano Banana and
create more shots of your character
inside a different scene. So, if I have
this astronaut, I can tell Nano Banana
to create a shot from a cinematic film
of the female astronaut repairing a
broken down space rover with power tools
inside a space habitat on a Mars colony.
And using an AI image generator, we can
create multiple shots of our same
consistent character inside the space
habitat. And once we have the store
down, we can simply animate them using
an AI video generator.
>> It's time for the daily reconnaissance
mission again. Activating the air lock
now.
One really cool prompting technique
that's available now is timestamped
prompting. In this case, we can
specifically describe what actions are
going on at each second of our AI video.
So with this shot of my astronaut
inspecting her tablet, I can write a
prompt where it breaks down an 8second
video intersection. So for the first 3
seconds, she's studying the glowing
tablet and a hologram of a spacecraft
pops up. Then in the next 3 seconds, it
should zoom into a close-up shot on the
astronaut's furrowed brow. She has a
look of concern. And in the final two
seconds of the video, a low rumble
shakes the habitat. Maybe an earthquake
or storm is happening that the lights
flicker and the astronaut has to steady
herself. So, inside Google AI Studio,
I'm going to make sure I select Franks
to video this time instead of just text
to video. Uh, and this will allow me to
attach a reference image of the
astronaut down here. And so, I've put in
that picture of our astronaut inspecting
her tablet. And then I'll paste in the
prompt are completed. that breaks down
the AI scene into three separate
sections.
Using image to video is also the best
way to preserve a consistent visual
style. If I have a very very uh distinct
visual style like this shot of a fairy
with these green embers glowing all
around her, the easiest way to create
multiple video [music] clips that have
the same consistent style is to actually
use image to video where first I use an
AI image generator. In this case, I used
a midjourney style reference feature to
create multiple scenes from my story
that had the same consistent visual
style of these dark backgrounds, the
bright green embers, like a dark fantasy
style. And once I have the images made
in the consistent style, what I did is I
used Veo 3 is to turn these AI images of
a consistent style [music] into AI
videos that also have a consistent
style. For image to video, I think
Google Veil 3.1 is still your best bet.
Although it is one of the more expensive
options at up to a dollar for an 8second
video. For a cheaper option, the clean
2.5 turbo model is also quite good. One
of the coolest ways to use image to
video is actually something called a
start and end frame feature. So I have
two image references of this goblin
character. One of him seeing from behind
and one of him seeing from the front.
These are going to be the first frame
and also the last frame of my AI video.
And I can actually instruct my AI video
generator to animate a orbiting motion
in a 180°ree movement around him.
Here's another example of the type of
video we can animate. In this case, it's
going to be a transformation of my bear
character that uh shakes off its fur and
transforms into this boy elf.
The best version of the start and end
frames feature is going to be in cling
AI. And so if you go to the image to
video generator, uh you'll have this
option to adding both the first frame of
the video and also the last frame of the
video. So for the first frame, I'm going
to have the picture of my bear and for
the end frame, I'm going to have the
picture of my elf boy. And then it's
always useful uh to adding a prompt that
describes what happens in the scene like
the bear is going to shake its head and
transform into the boy. Using the start
and end frames feature, I can exactly
determine what my character looks like
throughout the entire scene and also the
exact camera movement I want to happen.
Method number three when it comes to
creating AI videos is video to video.
Now, what we're doing is we're taking an
actual real recorded video and we're
going to use AI to transform that real
recorded video into something else. So,
for example, I have this recording of
myself acting out a scene. And what I
can actually do is actually use AI to
transfer my movements onto an AI
character like this.
This gives the highest amount of control
over the movements and the dialogue and
speech of a character. And to finish it
off, I can use an AI voice changer to
change my voice into a AI voice that
fits the characters better.
>> Okay, planned is kind of a big word. I
just saw a weak fuel route that was
running light on guards, so I thought
I'd take a little for myself. The best
AI model for doing this right now is the
one animate model. And to do this inside
one animate, you'll need to make sure
you have the AI avatar tool selected.
And then also use the photo animate AI
tool. Then the way this works is you'll
need an AI character image. Uh so I have
this green alien sitting inside the
interrogation room. And then the action
video. And so this action video is the
one of me talking and acting up the
scene. And right now the action video
can be up to 15 seconds. So if you have
a longer uh sequence you want to
animate, you need to break it up into
smaller sections. Video to video is one
of the coolest methods for making an AI
video. It is more unstable compared to
text to video or image to video. If we
take a look at some of these shots, the
wall in the background shift and move
around a little bit. uh there's some
light flickering back there.
So, while it does a good job of
animating your characters, if you have a
more complex background, it is hard to
keep it super stable. There are other
options that allow videotovideo
transfer. Luma's AI video generator has
this feature called modify where you can
have someone physically acting out a
scene and transfer all the movements
onto an AI character.
So, I also tried this for myself. I took
a video recording of myself. um acting
out of scene where I'm aiming a a
weapon.
And so I'll upload that video of myself
into Luma Labs. And with the video of
myself uploaded, I can go to this modify
feature, which is going to let me
transfer my movements onto an AI
character. Now, before I can do this, I
actually need a AI image of the AI
character that I'm going to transfer my
movements onto. And so first I actually
need to get the start frame from my own
video recording. And so that's just
going to look like me uh with my hand
pointed in the air. Then I used the Nano
Banana AI image generator to create an
AI character in the same exact pose that
I'm in of this robot holding a weapon in
a dystopian landscape. Then I need to
pick that AI robot picture as a start
frame uh of the video. And now I'm ready
to use the video to video motion
capture. When you go and try this for
yourself, just keep in mind that video
to video is still less developed than
text to video or image to video. The
main thing I'd suggest is make sure your
character's face is clearly visible
throughout the scene. You don't want
like too many super fast movements. It's
going to be hard for the AI to keep
track of everything. Method number four
to create an AI video is lip sync. This
is one of the most reliable ways to make
an AI characters for your films, create
an AI avatar, make an AI music video,
anything where you want the character to
speak. The how lip sync works is you
have just a audio file of somebody
talking and you can use that to animate
a complete AI character. What if I told
you this entire video was made by AI?
From the script to the visuals to the
voice you're hearing right now, we're
officially in the era where one creator
can do the work of an entire studio.
>> I made this guy using Hun's Avatar 4
model. Not only do the lip motions match
the audio very, very well. So are the
facial expressions, his pose, like the
little mannerisms, everything looks
very, very realistic. Now, we also do
have the option of animating the
character moving around and engaging
with their environment a little bit more
while lip-syncing. So, in this case, I
actually used a different tool called
Dina's Omnihuman 1.5 model to make my
character walk forward and talk at the
same time.
>> And trying not to trip over my own
sword. Glamorous work really. Dreamina
does have one of the cooler lips sync
tools uh where we can take our AI
avatar. I have this, you know, photo of
a man at a bar. And not only can I
upload an AI audio file, which is going
to be the dialogue that I want him to
say, I can also add in a description for
his movements. So, he points his finger
in the air while looking to the side,
reminiscing about a past story. I once
asked the bartender for something that
tastes like hope. He poured this amber
thing and said, "That's as close as it
gets." Turns out hope tastes like
oranges and mild regret. But hey, it's
better than water.
>> And also, if you have multiple
characters in your shot, so in this
shot, I have both a man and a woman,
I can specifically instruct my AI to
pick which character to talk. So, I can
make the man talk um or the woman talk.
So, she's character two. There's also, I
guess, this guy in the background, which
is detected as character three.
>> I've been trying to get this plant to
grow on my window sill for like 6 months
now. It's one of those little green ones
with the waxy leaves, you know.
So, uh, I was at the grocery store
earlier today, the one down by the train
station, not the one near the square,
because that one's always out of the
good kind of mustard. You know,
>> it does come with some trade-offs. It
tends to have a hard time animating the
hands correctly. In this shot of the
female knight, you'll see her hands
changing like three different times
throughout the video as she's speaking.
feeding a horse that hates me and trying
not to trip over my own sword. Glamorous
work, really.
>> And of course, this also works with
music, so your audio file can actually
be a song and you can animate the
character singing to it. But [music]
even through the tears, I can see the
[singing] dawn.
A tiny flame [music] of hope still
carries me on.
Method number five of making an AI video
is ingredients to video. Kind of similar
to image to video where we're starting
with image references, but instead of
just a single image, we can take
elements from multiple images and
combine them together. So, I have three
images here. One of my female soldier,
one of my orc captain, and one of the
landscape. And what I can do is actually
combine these three elements all into
the same video at the same time in a
fight scene.
This is definitely a quick way to put
your characters together and have them
interact with a specific environment
that you have in mind. The way I made
this was using Google's AI video studio.
And so you need to select this
ingredients to video feature and then
upload the three image references. One
of my female soldier, the uh goblin guy,
and also the landscape behind them.
And then in the prompt, describe how the
different elements are interacting with
each other. So I told her to create a
fight scene between the female warrior
and the orc on the landscape. They are
in a sword duel. In green games to video
is a fun concept and you can quickly put
a scene together. Here's another example
I tried where I have this green alien
guy. I had this droid um and then this
kitchen on a spaceship. And inside the
prompt, I told her to tell the alien
with green skin to walk around the
kitchen while preparing a meal. And he
complains about how he's been assigned
to kitchen duty while the droid follows
him around.
>> Kitchen duty. Really? Really?
It does actually do a decent job of
putting your characters in the
environment you want and having them
interact. Now, the main drawback of
ingredients to video is that it's not
going to give you the most dynamic
looking videos. So, now let's say I want
to have my green alien riding in that uh
hover vehicle above the lake. And I try
to do this using ingredients to video.
It does put all the elements together,
but it's kind of a super slow paced
scene. The vehicle is kind of like
hovering up and down.
Not a very exciting shot. Instead, if I
take the image to video approach first,
where first I combine all of my
different elements together inside the
same image. In this case, uh I used a
nano banana to combine those three
pictures together. And if I animate it
with AI video, it's going to give me a
way more dynamic, action-packed shot.
So, even though ingredients to video is
pretty easy to use, it's fun, uh you can
quickly combine characters and elements
together, it's not going to give you the
most realistic or dramatic results.
Method number six when it comes to
making AI videos is chat to edit. This
is kind of similar to the videotovideo
feature except now we're taking an
existing video and directly changing
something about it using AI. So if I had
this shot um of my night inside a
medieval village, what I can do is
actually use AI video to directly change
the conditions. For example, adding in
new weather conditions like a snowstorm
that the guy is in.
Or I could change the time of day. Maybe
it's midnight at night time.
So now what we were doing is actually
changing things about the environment
that the video is taken in. Like you
could take a video recording of you
acting out a scene and if you want it to
be in snowy weather, you can just
directly add snow in. Runway ML is a
platform that offers this functionality.
And if we find this apps menu in the
toolbar, you'll see a bunch of different
ways that you can change up the video.
For example, changing the weather, the
time of day, the lighting, uh the
backdrop. First, I need to upload the
original video. So, here's my night.
And then down here there's a bunch of
different preset options uh which will
give the best results. So I can change
the lighting to a warm light scene and
it changed the lighting in our scene to
a golden hour glow. This does only work
with the first 5 seconds though. Again,
when it comes to directly applying AI on
top of an already existing video, it is
one of the harder things to get
consistent results with. I also tried
changing the time of day to noon and
you'll see that his uniform actually
changes. His face also a little bit even
though the structure of the scene looks
pretty similar and it does a decent job.
We can also use chat to edit to remove
certain elements from the scene. So for
my video um I want to remove this cart
in the background. Taking my original
video, I can tell it to remove the
wooden cart in the background. It does
sort of remove the wooden cart. Now, if
we look at the bottom, there's still a
couple of like wooden blocks here that
didn't get removed. And then there's
also this like mist going up, even
though it doesn't really make sense for
that to be there. So, those are all the
methods for creating an AI video. Now,
if you want to learn how to level up
your AI video game from a beginner all
the way up to a pro, I made this
tutorial right here where I go through
the five different levels of creating AI
videos. Go take a look.
[music]